feat: add common scripts section (#386)
nervosnetwork/docs.nervos.org: website/docs/common-scripts/omnilock.mdx

---
id: omnilock
title: Omnilock Script
---

# Omnilock Script

> Omnilock is a lock script designed for interoperability. It comes with built-in support for verification of transaction signing methods used in Bitcoin, Ethereum, EOS, Dogecoin and more. It also comes with another feature of the regulation compliance module, which allows administrator to revoke tokens held by users under certain circumstances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Omnilock is a Lock Script designed for interoperability. It comes with built-in support for verification of transaction signing methods used in Bitcoin, Ethereum, EOS, Dogecoin and more. It also includes a regulation compliance module, which allows an administrator to revoke tokens held by users under certain circumstances.
```

## How Omnilock Works

> An Omnilock script has the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Omnilock Script has the following structure:
```

```
Code hash: Omnilock script code hash
Hash type: Omnilock script hash type
Args: <21 byte auth> <Omnilock args>
```

> There are two key fields in `args`:
> 
> - `auth`: for authentication, generally with pubkey hash in its content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 key fields in `args`:

- `auth`: for authentication, generally with a pubkey hash in its content
```

- `Omnilock args`: for extra checking control, allowing different modes to be enabled in the same `Omnilock args`

> The `Omnilock args` can be without mode (when `Omnilock flags` = 0), while the `auth` must be present. The functionality of Omnilock Script without mode is almost the same as traditional
> [SECP256K1/blake160](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0024-ckb-genesis-script-list/0024-ckb-genesis-script-list.md#secp256k1blake160) Lock Script. The Omnilock Script can be considered as a traditional Lock Script with additional checking/modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Omnilock args` can be without mode (when `Omnilock flags` = 0), while the `auth` must be present. The functionality of Omnilock Script without mode is almost the same as a traditional
[SECP256K1/blake160](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0024-ckb-genesis-script-list/0024-ckb-genesis-script-list.md#secp256k1blake160) Lock Script. The Omnilock Script can be considered as a traditional Lock Script with additional checking/modes.
```

### Authentication

An authentication (auth) is a 21-byte data structure containing the following components:

```
<1 byte flag> <20 bytes auth content>
```

Depending on the value of the flag, the auth content has the following interpretations:

- 0x0: It represents the blake160 hash of a secp256k1 public key. The Lock Script performs secp256k1 signature verification, the same as the [SECP256K1/blake160
  lock](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/780b2f98068ed2337f3a97b02ec6b5336b6fb143/rfcs/0024-ckb-genesis-script-list/0024-ckb-genesis-script-list.md#secp256k1blake160).
- 0x01: It follows the unlocking method used by Ethereum. The signing message
  hash (sighash_all, see [reference implementation](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/blob/a7b7c75662ed950c9bd024e15f83ce702a54996e/c/secp256k1_blake160_sighash_all.c#L219)) is converted as following:
  `"0x" + hex(signing message hash)`

>       The hex operator is to convert binary into hex string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The hex operator converts the binary into a hex string.
```

- 0x03: It follows the unlocking method used by Tron. The signing message hash

>   is converted as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  is converted as follows:
```

  `"0x" + hex(signing message hash)`
- 0x04: It follows the unlocking method used by Bitcoin. The signing message

>   hash is required to be converted as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  hash is required to be converted as follows:
```

  `"CKB (Bitcoin Layer) transaction: 0x" + hex(signing message hash)`

  This way, it facilitates a neat presentation of messages on wallet interfaces, such as UniSat and OKX.

- 0x05: It follows the unlocking method used by Dogecoin. The signing message

>   hash is converted as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  hash is converted as follows:
```

  `"0x" + hex(signing message hash)`
- 0x12: It follows the unlocking same method as 0x02, with the signing message hash
  to be converted as follows:
  `"CKB transaction: 0x" + hex(signing message hash)`

  This way, it facilitates a neat presentation of messages on wallet interfaces, such as MetaMask.

- 0x06: It follows the same unlocking method used by [CKB MultiSig](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-system-scripts/blob/master/c/secp256k1_blake160_multisig_all.c) with a minor modification. When a message is calculated for signing, there is a step to witness clearance. In Omnilock, this involves clearing the entire `lock` field in `witness`. But in CKB MultiSig Script, it is only a partial clearance. This part is used as `signatures` followed by `multisig_script`.
- 0xFC: It represents the blake160 hash of a Lock Script that checks if the current transaction contains an input Cell with a matching Lock Script. Otherwise, it would return with an error, similar to [P2SH in BTC](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Pay_to_script_hash).

> - 0xFD: It represents the blake160 hash of a preimage that contains [exec](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0034-vm-syscalls-2/0034-vm-syscalls-2.md#exec) information used to delegate signature verification to another script via exec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 0xFD: It represents the blake160 hash of a preimage that contains [exec](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0034-vm-syscalls-2/0034-vm-syscalls-2.md#exec) information used to delegate signature verification to another Script via exec.
```

| time-lock mode      | 0b00000100 | since for timelock          | 8                         | N/A                                            |
| supply mode         | 0b00001000 | type script hash for supply | 32                        | N/A                                            |

You can check out the details for different modes at [RFC](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0042-omnilock/0042-omnilock.md).

### Witness Structure

When unlocking an Omnilock, the corresponding witness must be a proper `WitnessArgs` data structure in Molecule format. In
the lock field of the `WitnessArgs`, an `OmniLockWitnessLock` structure must be present as follows:

```
import xudt_rce;

array Auth[byte; 21];

table Identity {
    identity: Auth,
    proofs: SmtProofEntryVec,
}
option IdentityOpt (Identity);

// the data structure used in lock field of witness
table OmniLockWitnessLock {
    signature: BytesOpt,
    omni_identity: IdentityOpt,
    preimage: BytesOpt,
}
```

To learn the detail of witness in Omnilock, check out the [RFC](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/rfcs/blob/master/rfcs/0042-omnilock/0042-omnilock.md#omnilock-witness)

## Script Deployed Info

> An [implementation](https://github.com/cryptape/omnilock) of the Omnilock spec above has been deployed to Mirana CKB mainnet and Pudge testnet:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above [Omnilock spec](https://github.com/cryptape/omnilock) has been deployed to CKB's Mainnet Mirana and Testnet Pudge. The following are the deployment details:
```

### Mainnet

| parameter | value                                                              |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| code_hash | 0x9b819793a64463aed77c615d6cb226eea5487ccfc0783043a587254cda2b6f26 |
| hash_type | type                                                               |
| tx_hash   | 0xc76edf469816aa22f416503c38d0b533d2a018e253e379f134c3985b3472c842 |
| index     | 0x0                                                                |
| dep_type  | code                                                               |

### Testnet

| parameter | value                                                              |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| code_hash | 0xf329effd1c475a2978453c8600e1eaf0bc2087ee093c3ee64cc96ec6847752cb |
| hash_type | type                                                               |
| tx_hash   | 0x3d4296df1bd2cc2bd3f483f61ab7ebeac462a2f336f2b944168fe6ba5d81c014 |
| index     | 0x0                                                                |
| dep_type  | code                                                               |

> ## Offchain SDK Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion

---

## Offchain SDK Examples
```

> ### Rust SDK
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rust SDK
The following example demonstrates creating, signing, and sending a transaction using the Omnilock Script with the [Rust SDK](/docs/sdk-and-devtool/rust).
```

    let mut contexts = HandlerContexts::default();
    contexts.add_context(Box::new(context) as Box<_>);

    let mut tx_with_groups = builder.build(&mut contexts)?;

    let json_tx = ckb_jsonrpc_types::TransactionView::from(tx_with_groups.get_tx_view().clone());
    println!("tx: {}", serde_json::to_string_pretty(&json_tx).unwrap());

    let private_key = h256!("0x6c9ed03816e3111e49384b8d180174ad08e29feb1393ea1b51cef1c505d4e36a");
    TransactionSigner::new(&network_info).sign_transaction(
        &mut tx_with_groups,
        &SignContexts::new_omnilock(
            [secp256k1::SecretKey::from_slice(private_key.as_bytes())?].to_vec(),
            omni_cfg,
        ),
    )?;

    let json_tx = ckb_jsonrpc_types::TransactionView::from(tx_with_groups.get_tx_view().clone());
    println!("tx: {}", serde_json::to_string_pretty(&json_tx).unwrap());

    let tx_hash = CkbRpcClient::new(network_info.url.as_str())
        .send_transaction(json_tx.inner, None)
        .expect("send transaction");
    // example tx: 0xc0c9954a3299b540e63351146a301438372abf93682d96c7cce691c334dd5757
    println!(">>> tx {} sent! <<<", tx_hash);

    Ok(())
}
```

> Others:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other example:
```

  }

  tx = commons.omnilock.prepareSigningEntries(tx, { config: CONFIG });

  let signedMessage = await ethereum.request({
    method: "personal_sign",
    params: [ethereum.selectedAddress, tx.signingEntries.get(0).message],
  });

  let v = Number.parseInt(signedMessage.slice(-2), 16);
  if (v >= 27) v -= 27;
  signedMessage =
    "0x" + signedMessage.slice(2, -2) + v.toString(16).padStart(2, "0");

  const signedWitness = hexify(
    blockchain.WitnessArgs.pack({
      lock: commons.omnilock.OmnilockWitnessLock.pack({
        signature: bytify(signedMessage).buffer,
      }),
    })
  );

  tx = tx.update("witnesses", (witnesses) => witnesses.set(0, signedWitness));

  const signedTx = helpers.createTransactionFromSkeleton(tx);
  const txHash = await rpc.sendTransaction(signedTx, "passthrough");

  return txHash;
}

export async function capacityOf(address: string): Promise<BI> {
  const collector = indexer.collector({
    lock: helpers.parseAddress(address),
  });

  let balance = BI.from(0);
  for await (const cell of collector.collect()) {
    balance = balance.add(cell.cellOutput.capacity);
  }

  return balance;
}
```

> Others examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other examples:
```
